document arrays in sql (#12549)
apache/druid: docs/querying/sql-array-functions.md

  ~ to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  ~ "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  ~ with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  ~
  ~   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  ~
  ~ Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  ~ software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  ~ "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  ~ KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  ~ specific language governing permissions and limitations
  ~ under the License.
  -->

<!--
  The format of the tables that describe the functions and operators
  should not be changed without updating the script create-sql-docs
  in web-console/script/create-sql-docs, because the script detects
  patterns in this markdown file and parse it to TypeScript file for web console
-->

> Apache Druid supports two query languages: Druid SQL and [native queries](querying.md).
> This document describes the SQL language.

This page describes the operations you can perform on arrays using [Druid SQL](./sql.md). See [`ARRAY` data type documentation](./sql-data-types.md#arrays) for additional details.

> All 'array' references in the array function documentation can refer to multi-value string columns or `ARRAY` literals. These functions are largely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All array references in the array function documentation can refer to multi-value string columns or `ARRAY` literals. These functions are largely
```

identical to the [multi-value string functions](./sql-multivalue-string-functions.md), but use `ARRAY` types and behavior.

> |Function|Notes|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Function|Description|
```

|--------|-----|
|`ARRAY[expr1, expr2, ...]`|Constructs a SQL `ARRAY` literal from the expression arguments, using the type of the first argument as the output array type.|

> |`ARRAY_LENGTH(arr)`|Returns length of array expression.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_LENGTH(arr)`|Returns length of the array expression.|
```

> |`ARRAY_OFFSET(arr, long)`|Returns the array element at the 0 based index supplied, or null for an out of range index.|
> |`ARRAY_ORDINAL(arr, long)`|Returns the array element at the 1 based index supplied, or null for an out of range index.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_OFFSET(arr, long)`|Returns the array element at the 0-based index supplied, or null for an out of range index.|
|`ARRAY_ORDINAL(arr, long)`|Returns the array element at the 1-based index supplied, or null for an out of range index.|
```

> |`ARRAY_CONTAINS(arr, expr)`|Returns 1 if the array contains the element specified by `expr`, or contains all elements specified by `expr` if `expr` is an array, else 0.|

Reviewer 2: This description is pretty dense, trying to unpack a bit:
```suggestion
|`ARRAY_CONTAINS(arr, expr)`|If `expr` is a single element, returns 1 if `arr` contains the element. If `expr` is an array, returns 1 if `arr` contains all elements specified by `expr`. Otherwise returns 0.|
```

|`ARRAY_OVERLAP(arr1, arr2)`|Returns 1 if `arr1` and `arr2` have any elements in common, else 0.|

> |`ARRAY_OFFSET_OF(arr, expr)`|Returns the 0 based index of the first occurrence of `expr` in the array, or `-1` or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false` if no matching elements exist in the array.|
> |`ARRAY_ORDINAL_OF(arr, expr)`|Returns the 1 based index of the first occurrence of `expr` in the array, or `-1` or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false` if no matching elements exist in the array.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_OFFSET_OF(arr, expr)`|Returns the 0-based index of the first occurrence of `expr` in the array. If no matching elements exist in the array, returns `-1` or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false`.|
|`ARRAY_ORDINAL_OF(arr, expr)`|Returns the 1-based index of the first occurrence of `expr` in the array. If no matching elements exist in the array, returns `-1` or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false`.|
```

> |`ARRAY_PREPEND(expr, arr)`|Adds `expr` to `arr` at the beginning, the resulting array type determined by the type of the array.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_PREPEND(expr, arr)`|Prepend `expr` to `arr`, the resulting array type determined by the type of the array.|
Can we use the word "prepend" here without altering the meaning?

|`ARRAY_APPEND(arr, expr)`|Appends `expr` to `arr`. The type of `arr` determines the resulting array type.|

> |`ARRAY_CONCAT(arr1, arr2)`|Concatenates two arrays. The type of `arr1` determines the resulting array type.|

Reviewer 2: Suggests that arr1 goes before arr2, or could make more explicit
```suggestion
|`ARRAY_CONCAT(arr1, arr2)`|Concatenates `arr2` to `arr1`. The type of `arr1` determines the resulting array type.|
```

> |`ARRAY_CONCAT(arr1, arr2)`|Concatenates 2 arrays, the resulting array type determined by the type of the first array.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_CONCAT(arr1, arr2)`|Concatenates two arrays, the resulting array type determined by the type of the first array.|
```

> |`ARRAY_SLICE(arr, start, end)`|Returns the subarray of `arr` from the 0 based index start(inclusive) to end(exclusive), or `null`, if start is less than 0, greater than length of arr or less than end.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_SLICE(arr, start, end)`|Returns the subarray of `arr` from the 0 based index start (inclusive) to end (exclusive). Returns `null` if start is less than 0, greater than length of `arr`, or less than `end`.|
```

> |`ARRAY_SLICE(arr, start, end)`|Returns the subarray of `arr` from the 0 based index `start` (inclusive) to `end` (exclusive). Returns `null`, if `start` is less than 0, greater than length of `arr`, or less than `end`.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_SLICE(arr, start, end)`|Returns the subarray of `arr` from the 0-based index `start` (inclusive) to `end` (exclusive). Returns `null` if `start` is less than 0, greater than length of `arr`, or less than `end`.|
```

> |`ARRAY_SLICE(arr, start, end)`|Returns the subarray of `arr` from the 0 based index `start` (inclusive) to `end` (exclusive). Returns `null`, if `start` is less than 0, greater than length of `arr`, or less than `end`.|

Reviewer 2: Should that say if `start` is greater than `end`?

|Function|Notes|
|--------|-----|
|`ARRAY[expr1, expr2, ...]`|Constructs a SQL `ARRAY` literal from the expression arguments, using the type of the first argument as the output array type.|
|`ARRAY_LENGTH(arr)`|Returns length of array expression.|
|`ARRAY_OFFSET(arr, long)`|Returns the array element at the 0 based index supplied, or null for an out of range index.|
|`ARRAY_ORDINAL(arr, long)`|Returns the array element at the 1 based index supplied, or null for an out of range index.|
|`ARRAY_CONTAINS(arr, expr)`|Returns 1 if the array contains the element specified by `expr`, or contains all elements specified by `expr` if `expr` is an array, else 0.|
|`ARRAY_OVERLAP(arr1, arr2)`|Returns 1 if `arr1` and `arr2` have any elements in common, else 0.|
|`ARRAY_OFFSET_OF(arr, expr)`|Returns the 0 based index of the first occurrence of `expr` in the array, or `-1` or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false` if no matching elements exist in the array.|
|`ARRAY_ORDINAL_OF(arr, expr)`|Returns the 1 based index of the first occurrence of `expr` in the array, or `-1` or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false` if no matching elements exist in the array.|

> |`ARRAY_PREPEND(expr, arr)`|Prepends `expr` to `arr` at the beginning, the resulting array type determined by the type of `arr`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_PREPEND(expr, arr)`|Prepends `expr` to `arr`.  The type of `arr` determines the resulting array type.|
```

> |`ARRAY_APPEND(arr1, expr)`|Appends `expr` to `arr`, the resulting array type determined by the type of `arr1`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_APPEND(arr, expr)`|Appends `expr` to `arr`. The type of `arr` determines the resulting array type.|
```
